♪ [music] ♪
- [Wes Bos] By now you are probably sick
of making stores and having to fill out
these forms of just random stuff.
And we're about to work on our API here
where we're going to be able to search for
stores, but in order for us to search for
stuff, we need a whole bunch of data to
actually search for. So, what I've done
here, if we open up our package.json
file, you'll know that there are a number
of different scripts in here, and this
might look a little bit different from
what you have, depending on what all of
the deployment stuff ends up being, but we
do have ones called 'Sample' and
'blowitallaway.' And what Sample will do
is run a script called load-sample-data.js
and blowitallaway will also do that, but
it'll just delete everything.
Let's open up that file and look at what
we got here. So, look at load-sample-data,
and this is sort of a quick and dirty
script. It's not part of our application,
which is why we need to do all of the
requiring, the environmental
variables and requiring the connection to
the database and what not.
That's why it's outside of our
application, but what this will do is it
will load everything up, connect to our
database, bring in our models,
and then read the files from stores.json
to reviews.json and users.json.
So, if I open up stores.json,
you'll see that this is just
a whole bunch of data related to some
sample stores, and the same we'll be able
to use in users. That will load them into
some objects here. And then the function
called loadData is going to
insertMany(stores); inserMany(reviews);
and insertMany(users);
from which we console.log 'Done!', and
we're done out of the thing.
So, that's what we've got so far, but we
don't have reviews yet.
So, this isn't going to work
just yet. So what I want you to do is to
comment out a couple of things so we can
actually run this and stop having to
input data manually.
So go to our review here. Comment that one
out, One. That one, Two. Three. Four.
And that's it. Four.
So how do we run this script? Well, we
should be able to go back to our terminal
here. I'm going to kill what I'm running
right now with control c, and
then I'm going to run 'npm run sample.'
There we go! It worked. It loaded in.
Don't worry about this deprecation error
message. That's not something we ever have
to worry about. And then we have this
thumbs up, done! And if you go back to
your Mongo DB compass and click on stores
and apply this, you'll see we now have
eighteen documents, and they are spread
out all over the world, and if you look at
your documents here, you are going to see
that we've got all kinds of great stuff.
You should be able to refresh our
application. Oh, it doesn't work.
Why? Because we have to start our app
again. 'npm start' or bom start.
'npm start'. And then refresh this
sucker, and ...lots and lots of lots of
data. Obviously we are going to need
to do the pagination bit pretty soon.
We've got quite a bit going on here, and
if you click on one of them, you should
see all the information. We can actually
remove that real quick.
Let's open up store.pug.
Take that dump out of there.
Good. So we've got all of our data. Go to
tags and you can see a whole bunch of
different tags that are being pulled in -
"Family friendly," "Vegetarian,"
"Licensed." Good.
So, that was how we load a bunch of data.
If you ever want to delete all of the data
you can run it. Just look at the readme.md
and you can run 'npm run blowitallaway'
and that will delete all of your data. As
part of importing all of these users, I
imported three extra users here: Wes,
Debbie, and Beau. And if you look at our
data here. Go to 'users,' you're going to
see that there's a Randy, there's a
Wesley, those are the two that we made,
but now here's Beau, Debbie, and Wes,
and their all at example.com. So if you
ever need to log in and log out as other
people, their email addresses are in the
readme.md, and their passwords are, also.
So it's Wes, Debbie, and Beau. Those are
all the passwords for you
to log in as those people. So we can try
it real quick. Try logging in as Debbie
Downer. There we go. Now I'm
logged in as Debbie Downer.
So that's how you load a
bunch of sample data.
These images work, because in the public
uploads folder when you cloned this repo
or downloaded it from Github you'll notice
that it came with a bunch of images
already, and you can use those. Those are
there, because they are associated with
some of the stores that we have uploaded.
So that's our sample data.
Now that we have it, let's move into
getting the search up and running.